Now we're going to add an arm bar to that.
Same sweep sequence that we just did.
As far as using the scissor leg position or scissor hack position
to to the pendulum.
When you're doing this, going for the arm bar here,
the one thing you have to, in my opinion, you need to do,
unless you're going to take a pit stop and go to a corner lock.
Which works, um, fabulous.
You want to get him moving in the sweep first.
Remember, like, if you're going to hit an arm bar, you do not want him to be able to time the arm pulling out.
Or go to some defense and pick you up and slam you kind of thing.
So, what you really want is you want to get that body moving forward where once he's off balance, the defense is shit.
So, don't be in a hurry to get the leg around the head.
There's a, yeah, don't be in a hurry to get to that arm bar.
Instead, just focus on getting him forward into the sweep.
You can actually hit the arm bar once you sweep him if you really want to.
But you're better off doing something like that,
than to hit the arm bar here and go for it directly, you, um, create that body moving forward.
Get it off balance and, uh, you'll be able to land a higher percentage arm bar.
And, plus, if you're if he goes to a defensive position, um, you want to be on top breaking that grip and and countering his counter of the arm bar.
You don't want to be on your back.
Okay? Just in No-Gi, I don't recommend it. You have a higher percent of chance of finishing that arm bar if you're trying to finish it and, um, from from being on top in, like, what they call the spiderweb position now.
So, your your percentage rate is going to be a lot higher to finish.
So, what you want to try to do is get that that sweep going.
Okay? I'll probably have to hit a couple angles of this, but
So, I'm here, I create my space, I couldn't fake for the sweep or whatever the case is.
But now I'm starting to let him in.
Now, when I go for this hook, you see, I'm kind of in a cape position.
Okay?
And now I'm going to start letting him in and getting that body moving forward.
And then I'll time the the arm bar.
So, as I go here, I'm going to let go, get that body moving, and come over the top.
Okay?
I had to do that slow.
And I'll, I'll discuss how I do my legs here in a second.
Okay?
One more time.
Okay, so I'm here.
Try to pull the hack.
Nope.
And now here.
Okay? Now,
One time.
Everybody, a lot of people have different philosophies about the, uh, where your leg is.
Leg, you know, crossed,
uncrossed, everybody's got their own little their thing.
I used to not cross my ankles when I first started because I learned certain someone like that.
But in my experience, I cross my ankles.
I I cross my ankles all the fucking time and part of that reason is I'm trying to capture his, um, his shoulder.
And it prevents some of the escapes from when he's on his back.
Okay? But the other thing is when you curl your heels, you can break the arm bar, break his arm, not necessarily by pulling the hand back, by pulling the the the upper part of the arm forward.
Okay? So, uh, good example.
Can you lay here?
Yeah.
Just go on your back.
Like I have an arm bar.
Okay?
So, Okay.
So, let's say, all right, let's say I'm here, okay?
Just, like, keep your arm straight.
Okay? So, if I'm here, right now, my legs aren't doing anything.
Okay? So, his arm is not moving, right?
But now I'm going to curl.
You see how his leg went up?
His arm went up, I mean.
So, basically, by curling, I move this part of the arm forward, okay?
By doing that, if I have this arm here, pinned to my chest.
Let's say I have it pinned to my chest, and now, instead of pulling the arm bar,
I just start curling, it's going to take very little for me to have to break the arm as far as driving through it.
You see what I'm saying? So,
don't always feel like, uh, oh, I got to keep my legs open, and then do all this other stuff, you know?
I my my recommendation is, especially if he's he's you get him locked up behind his shoulder.
You're going to have better luck breaking the arm with
a curling the legs and then there's my legs are a little long for this, but one of the options you can do is, you don't want someone to
when you're here trying to break the grip or doing the arm bar, you don't want him to split your legs apart.
And you don't want him to sit up and get back on top to stack you.
When you pull your legs apart, you your knee press it down on the body, and the other knee presses down on the head.
So, it makes it a lot harder for him to roll his body to sit up and counter you.
If my knees are together more, he's he can pick his head up,
and he can also get his hips up high, okay?
And by doing that, he's going to find a way to destabilize me and try to counter the the arm bar.
So, when you do this, my recommendation is to curl and to spread a little.
My legs are super long, so,
I'm gonna go with heavyweights, I can spread and it works great.
When I go with people smaller, I kind of don't spread as much as I want to.
Just because my legs are so long that, uh, well, what can happen, I can open up a hole for the head to slip through if I'm not careful.
That's why probably people don't want to do that.
But when you're my legs are very long, but when I do it with the heavyweights, I'm a heavyweight, so my own weight class, it's no problem.
205 is no problem.
You start getting lighter, you know, these guys are so small.
They're going to, I got, you know, it's, uh, it's a little more tricky.
You know, so, I definitely recommend you, you figure this out.
I learned this a long time ago, and it was great advice.
And, and, uh, I still think it's a better fundamental
than naturally being, like, here, um, where, yeah, your feet can move and all that stuff.
But I I see he can counter way more often.
Then if both arms are locked like this, okay?
So, boom, look for your sweep, doesn't happen, whatever the case is.
Now, switch, get that body going forward, hit your pendulum, I go here, I have a good bite.
I keep the leg and I keep the hand.
So, I have two-on-one this and here.
And now I lock, curl.
See how he taps?
Just curling my legs is doing the break.
Not even the fact that I'm gonna pull and drive my hips forward.
You can do these kind of locks, you're really driving your hips, uh, through the arm.
And here's the other thing.
If you If you pull, let's say you do poor technique,
and you're not able to break the arm.
But maybe you get taps in training.
Those those taps are or people that just, they just don't care.
They're just, they're going to throw it away.
I don't care.
Okay?
If a guy can't break your limb, and he's my training partner, I'm going to push it.
I'm going to fight like hell because he needs to learn.
If you can't break it, not that I want him to break my arm.
If I feel like he can break it, I'm going to tap.
But most people lose sight of these techniques,
and how, hey, that's supposed to break the arm.
Well, there's plenty of guys I know that do arm bars.
They get the arm straight, and it's scary looking, but they can't fucking break it.
If you can't break it, it's not real.
That's just my perspective, you know?
If you go for a knee bar, and guys tap, but you can't break that knee.
What are you doing?
It's just, it concession holds, um,
are so common, you know, because of training, no one wants to get hurt, but it it can
you just don't want to give a concession tap, or concession hold, more credit than a true lock that can break the limb.
And, you know,
this is supposed to be about, you know, real fighting on the street originally.
You know, uh, what do you think's going to happen if you can't break his arm?
You know?
He's not going to tap in a street fight.
You got to be able to break it.
And that's that's when it comes to arm bars,
especially, I don't, uh, make sure
you're not doing piss poor technique on your arm bar, he he you should feel the tightness of the arm lock straight
without you having to lean back much at all to drive your hips in to break it.
You know, you want to feel bunched up with his arm straight.
So, a simple slight motion gives you a lot of room.
You have, you have so much room to break through that that arm.
So, it's, uh, it's a very important thing that,
you know, it's okay to criticize someone's technique if you don't think they can break it.
You know, and just make sure you do it right.
And how I like to do it is I like to cross,
capture the far shoulder, pull it in, that moves the arm forward up and high.
Meanwhile, I'm locking it low.
And then as that happens, I can just drive my hips through it.
And I can break the arm.
You know, some people can't do shit like that unless they're wearing a cup or whatever.
So, just make sure you can break it.
Because if you can't break it, it's it's fucking worthless.
It really is.
You might get away with it in the gym, but,
you're going to learn the hard way eventually.
So,
just put some thought into that.
```